Hello and welcome to this final step of building the normalizer class.
So in the previous two tutorials we made the first two methods of this normalizer class the first method
that initializes all the variables of the future normalizer objects two vectors of zeros with the same
number of zeros as number of inputs in the vector of input states.
Then a second method observed which each time we observe a new state will do an online update of the
mean and variance.
After they were initialized to zeros.
And finally now that we have the mean and variance we are ready to normalize our state.
Each time we observe a new state as well.
So still we have to understand that we are doing an on line normalization of the states but the online
part of the consideration in the normalization of the state was already done.
Thanks to this observed method.
So let's do this let's define the final function the final method of this normalized class which will
be normalize and which is going to take as input self.
Because we're going to use the variables of the object here self and this time the values of our inputs
because indeed we'll take the values of our input into the input state vector we'll subtract them by
the mean which was computed here through an online data the mean and divide them by the square root
of the variance.
So indeed we need to take again our inputs values and that's it.
Colin Let's get the observed mean first.
So I'm going to make any variable here so that nothing is lost or you know erased abs mean meaning the
observed mean.
Which is of course self that mean which was computed previously in the observed method.
Then I'm going to get to observe standard deviation which is the root.
The square root of the variance you know you have to subtract by the mean and then divided by the standard
deviation which is the square root of the variance.
And in order to take the square root of something you can use non-pay which has a shortcut and P and
then take the s q r t function which will take as input the variable you want to take the world and
that is of course our variance.
Self-taught var which was already updated previously in the observed method.
Self-taught var.
So now we have you observed mean where we have our new input when we reach a new state.
And we also have the observe standard deviation.
So we have everything we need to normalize our states and since we want to normalize method to return
the normalized values at the state.
Well we are going to return that directly.
And these are our values of the states and counted at this specific time T where we're at.
And that's our input minus the mean of the values of the states divided by the standard deviation observed
SDD at this specific time t that we've reached and that normalizes our states.
As I told you this was very easy.
Now that we did the most difficult part meaning the 0 9 update on an condition of the mean and variance.
All right perfect.
So that's a good first step done.
We are done with this normalizer class which means that we are also done with this part of the paper
we did this part.
So we did the first optimization of the future performance and now we're going to move on to the heart
of the algorithm which is this one.
And to do that we'll make a policy class inside which will apply some of the algorithm here.
But what you have to understand is that the future object of this policy class that we're about to make
in the future to Toyo's will represent the policy and it will have some method which will allow to date
the weight of the policy of you know the perception representing the policy after applying some perturbations
in some directions in opposite directions in order to increase the reward.
The best way.
So let's do all this in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy AI.